--- 
layout: post
title: It's that time again - System wipe
date: 2005-1-9
comments: true
link: false
---
<div style="clear:both;"></div><span style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;font-size:85%;">Like many computer power (read: nit-picky) users, I find the need to reformat my machine just about twice a year. This time around I have been lazy and it has been 9 months since my last reformat. This is mainly because I have been utterly dependent upon it as a server.<br /><br />I have been developing applications in PHP that were being shown to different clients, and it seemed each time I was about to finish a project, another one came right along.<br /><br />I also started a couple ASP.NET projects and was becoming very dependent upon my computer (well, a little more than usual).<br /><br />To top it all off my computer serves media content to my xbox, whicch I also didn't want to interrupt.<br /><br />I finally realized that I was NEVER going to get a break from being dependent upon my computer, so tonight I will reformat. After this install I plan to "ghost" my hard drives and make a set of restore cd's. I have heard this is a great tool for many people, but my computer is rarely in a position where I want a "snapshot" to always return to. This will be my opportunity to do that.<br /><br />To make my restore state the most useful in the long run, I have written down all the software I want to have on it. Good god! No wonder my system is so damn slow! I hand-wrote an entire page of software titles that I will be installing.<br /><br />I might as well list it out and explain why I like each piece of software... maybe someone will find it useful. Or maybe you can post a comment making fun of me. In any case, this is my blog NOT YOURS!<br /><br />.....sorry, got a little carried away.Where were we?Ahh, yes.. the software list, complete with comments.<br /><br />My OS is WinXP Pro, for reasons that are probably obvious. Pretty much the only things I do are play games, develop in .NET and mess with DirectX... enough said.<br /><br /><span style="font-weight: bold;">Security<br /><hr /></span><span style="font-size:100%;">(these days it is a must to install these programs first! Think how dangerous it could be to visit 1 site without anti-virus / anti-spy with a stock version of IE.... /shudder)<br /></span></span> <ul style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" > <li><span style="font-size:85%;">McAfee Enterprise 7 - far better than Norton imho...</span></li> <li><span style="font-size:85%;">SpyBot - It's free and catches more than Ad-aware</span></li> <li><span style="font-size:85%;">Ad-aware - well, Spybot isn't perfect....any suggestions on replacing these 2 with one all mighty Anti-Spy solution?</span></li> </ul> <span style="font-weight: bold; font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" >System</span><br /><hr style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" ><span style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;font-size:78%;"><br /></span> <ul style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" > <li><span style="font-size:85%;">DirectX 9.0c SDK - For my ventures in game programming with the awe-inspiring Managed DirectX</span></li> <li><span style="font-size:85%;">.NET 1.1 - For my managed development</span></li> <li><span style="font-size:85%;">PHP - cuz a little side money from <a href="http://www.rentacoder.com/">Rent-a-coder</a> never hurts.<br /> </span></li> <li><span style="font-size:85%;">IIS - for asp.net and php</span></li> </ul><span style="font-weight: bold; font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" >Databases</span><br /><hr style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" ><br /><span style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" >I use 2 because I have to develop for different target database servers. </span><br /><ul style="font-family: arial;"> <li>SQL Server 2000 (for asp.net stuff)</li> <li>MySQL (for php)</li> </ul><span style="font-weight: bold;">Development<br /><hr /><br /></span> <ul> <li>Microsoft Visual Studio .NET 2003</li> <li>Dreamweaver MX 2004</li> <li>EditPlus (though dreamweaver has better builtin ftp support)<br /></li> <li>SQLYog (free!) (wonderful tool for MySQL<br /></li> <li>Enterprise Manager / Query Analyzer</li> <li>Subversion (best source control I've seen)<br /></li> </ul><br /><span style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;" > <span style="font-weight: bold;">Visual</span></span><br /><hr style="font-family: arial;"><br /><ul style="font-family: arial;"> <li><strike>StyleXP (lots of clean visual styles out there)</strike> (i just recently learned that stylexp only hacks the microsoft dll to provide unsigned styles.The same thing can be accomplished with a manual hack.WindowsBlinds has their own dll for skinning, so I'm testing that out.I also got a copy of RoyalXP (the 2005 MCE style -- nice!)</li><li>Customize.org (for wallpapers)</li> </ul><span style="font-weight: bold;">Media<br /><hr /><br /></span> <ul> <li>Windows Media Player 10 (though it's pissing me off to no end)</li> <li>Winamp 5</li> </ul> <span style="font-weight: bold;">Burning<br /><hr /><br /></span> <ul> <li>Nero</li> <li>Alcohol 120%</li> <li>Daemon-Tools (for mounting images)</li> <li>CloneDVD</li> </ul> I'd like comments.I'm always on the lookout for more good software to bloat my machine!<span style="font-family: arial;font-family:arial;font-size:78%;"><br /></span><div style="clear:both; padding-bottom: 0.25em;"></div>
