--- 
layout: post
title: dasBlog Theme Contest - Deadline Extended
date: 2007-7-10
comments: true
link: false
---
<p><font style="BACKGROUND-COLOR: #f4f4f4">I&rsquo;ve gotten a number of requests for this, so I&rsquo;ve decided to extend the deadline for the <a href="http://www.flux88.com/dasBlogthemeContext.aspx">dasBlog Theme Contest</a>&nbsp;until July 22<sup>nd</sup>, 2007.&nbsp; <strong>That gives 2 full weekends before the themes are due.</strong></font></p><p>As a reminder, there is a <strong>$100</strong> shiny Amazon gift card with your name on it if you can submit a slick-looking theme that impresses us more than the rest.&nbsp; So far the response has been lower than expected, which means your chances of winning are better!</p><p>Creating a theme is easy.&nbsp; It takes about 2 hours to get a fully working theme when you get used to the macros and the page layout, and maybe a few more to make sure that the site looks good in all major browsers.</p><p>I&rsquo;ve also received a number of similar questions, so I&rsquo;ll answer them here:</p><p><em>The rules for the contest state &lsquo;no licensed material&rsquo; &mdash; does that mean I can&rsquo;t use images under GPL, BSD, or Creative Commons?</em></p><p><strong>No.&nbsp; I wrote that more as a CYA requirement.&nbsp; Basically as long as there are no restrictions in distributing the artifacts along with dasBlog we&rsquo;re OK with it.&nbsp; Just be sure to ask permission where warranted and always give credit.</strong></p><p><em>I love the ________ theme from WordPress|MovableType|blogger|Subtext.&nbsp; Can I just port that?</em></p><p><strong>Absolutely!&nbsp; As long as you follow the rule above, we&rsquo;d love to see some familiar professional themes on dasBlog.</strong></p><p><em>I don&rsquo;t have a .NET environment to test out dasBlog&hellip; can I still participate?</em></p><p><strong>I will help out as much as I can.&nbsp; If you can provide me with a solid HTML template with all of the required pieces in place, I will try to help out getting it on dasBlog.</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Any other questions?</p>
